_This project has been created as part of the 42 curriculum by nponchon._

# ft_lgtm

Looks Good To Monitor. A modern k8s observability stack for a web application replicating a sandbox IDE

## Description

This project is about deploying a web application on a Kubernetes cluster along with a stack monitoring and observability tools.

This is an overview of the architecture as seen from k9s:

<INSERT SCREENSHOT HERE>

### Web Application

The web application consists in a simple front/backend architecture:

- **client**: A very basic IDE that runs in a browser and allows the user to write code snippets and run them. The IDE is powered by [CodeMirror](https://codemirror.net/docs/), a popular code editor library for the web. The rest is built with React and TypeScript. The client is served via a Nginx server.

- **server**: receives the code from the client and execute it in a WASM sandbox environment to prevent potential faulty programs (infinite loops, memory leaks) or malicious code (unauthorised file access, destructive programs). The server is built in Go for performance and architecture simplicity.

### Web Assembly (WASM)

Upon receiving the code snippet from the client, the server compiles it into a Web Assembly module and executes it in a sandbox environment. The result of the execution is then sent back to the client.

The following diagram illustrates the architecture of the WASM environment:

```terminal
Kubernetes Pod

└── Linux Container

      └── Go Backend
      
             └── Wazero Runtime

                    └── User WASM Module
```

The WASM runtime lives directly inside the Go backend. The runtime is responsible for executing the user WASM module in a sandbox environment with the necessary security and resource constraints.

### IPFS (Inter-Planetary File System)

The code should be hosted via the IPFS protocols. The core concept of IPFS is to share files via hashes instead of locations, using a peer-to-peer approach.

### LGTM

The monitoring and observability stack consists in the following applications running alongside the app within the cluster:

## Instructions

## Resources

### References

- [Kubernetes Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/home)
- [CodeMirror Documentation](https://codemirror.net/docs/)
- [Wazero Documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/tetratelabs/wazero@v1.12.0)

### AI Usage

For the development of this project, I used a combination of OpenAI's ChatGPT, Anthropic's Claude, and GitHub Copilot.

I used these tools for the following tasks:

- Generating the frontend: I used ChatGPT to generate the core structure of the frontend application, including the main components and routing. This project is about building a platform for monitoring and observability, not about building a frontend application, and I did not want to spend time fighting React components and npm compatibility issues.
- Writing boilerplate code: Copilot's autocomplete feature was used to help me generate boilerplate code, especially for the frontend services or the Helm charts. This reduced the amount of repetitive coding I had to do and the chances of introducing errors like typos or syntax mistakes.
- Discuss architecture and design decisions: I used ChatGPT to confront my ideas and discuss architecture and design decisions, especially the Go backend architecture and the WASM execution environment, as well as the Kubernetes cluster infrastructure.

I want to emphasise that in the course of this project, I checked any piece of code generated by AI tools to make sure I understood. I had to correct it many times because it contained errors or was simply not adapted to my project.

No agentic AI was used.
